WI000813: Technology Entrepreneurship Lab | Technology
Entrepreneurship Lab




Version of module description: Gültig ab summerterm 2018

Module Level:
Master

Language:
English

Duration:
one semester

Frequency:
winter/summer
semester

Credits:*
6

Total Hours:
180

Self-study Hours:
120

Contact Hours:
60

Number of credits may vary according to degree program. Please see Transcript of Records.

Description of Examination Method:
The  grading is based on a project work.
With the project work students show their understanding of the processes associated with the
recognition and development of entrepreneurial opportunities. Students show that they are able
to analyze the development of entrepreneurial teams. Moreover, they show their ability to apply
coaching tools.
Throughout the project work each student has to hand in regular written documentation of
maximum one page in which to describe the continuous development of the entrepreneurial idea
as well as the team (60%). At the end of the project work each student has to hand in a summary
documentation of maximum three pages (40%) covering idea development, team development and
used tools.

Repeat Examination:
Next semester

(Recommended) Prerequisites:
First entrepreneurial experience (in any field)
First team development experience (in any filed)
Ideally already taken part in Tech Challenge (WI 001180) or Business Plan Basic Seminar
(WI000159)

Content:
In cooperation with UnternehmerTUM GmbH.
The module Technology Entrepreneurship Lab offers a "hands-on-experience" for the development
of entrepreneurial business ideas and opportunities with

Module Catalog of the study program M.Sc. Finance and Information Management (FIM)
Generated on 18.11.2022

60 of 68

WI000813: Technology Entrepreneurship Lab | Technology Entrepreneurship Lab

teams. Students work full-time for three consecutive days on the development of their
entrepreneurial, technological and coaching skills. The students document both, the opportunity
development process and the parallel team development
process and present both processes. Subsequently, they will work on their teams’ development of
an opportunity assessment plan for the respective business ideas.

Intended Learning Outcomes:
After module participation students are able to understand the processes associated with the
recognition and development of entrepreneurial opportunities. In addition, they are able to analyze
the development of
entrepreneurial teams and to apply coaching tools for this purpose. Further, they are able to
develop an opportunity assessment plan as well as guide others in this process.

Teaching and Learning Methods:
The module consists of a three-day introductory lecture on entrepreneurial, technological and
coaching skills as well as a hands-on 3 month execution phase with teams. A coach accompanies
this process. The business ideas and team development processes are supervised and presented.

Media:
PowerPoint, Flipchart, online communication tool, virtual meetings, online webinars

Reading List:
Hisrich, R. D./Peters, M. P./Shepherd, D. A.: Entrepreneurship, 8th edition, McGraw-Hill, 2010

Responsible for Module:
Patzelt, Holger; Prof. Dr. rer. pol.

Courses (Type of course, Weekly hours per semester), Instructor: 
Technology Entrepreneurship Lab (WI000813) (Seminar, 4 SWS)
Heyde F [L], Heyde F
For further information in this module, please click campus.tum.de or here.

Module Catalog of the study program M.Sc. Finance and Information Management (FIM)
Generated on 18.11.2022

61 of 68

WI001180: Tech Challenge | Tech Challenge



